> #Misinformation [[Home]]
- Paraphrase
- Listen to Mr. Davis
	- What did Davis say
- 
# The Lost Cause - United Daughter of the Confederacy
- Southern history 
- confederate soldier was for themselves
- Pro slavery (they were happy)
- confederate veterans to commerate the fight. 
- influence the next generation
	- textbooks
- actively participate
- after school rethoric
- through their personal ideas 
# Ecological Imperalism/
> #Natives

How does European having colonization?
	Because Europeans are intrested in resources that didn't work

How does Europeans Conquer Americas dispite being worse in every way shape or form
	Europe had it because of Disease
America was a mistake
- Europeans were trying to get to India
- Europeans were getting the money for trading in India
- Columbus was not good at math 
	- Mayflower
	- Asians appeared of America more
## Geography
- All of Earth was together
## Global Reverse Warming
- Bering Straits and moved from the Land Bridge.(Sibera/Asian) 
- Natives hunted Mammoth, no competition with the ecology
- Global Warming
	- Hungry and effective hunters
	- Agracutlture
- Pleistocene overkill(megafauna)
	- Transitiion to Agraculture -> Complex Societies. 
		- Proper heigharchy was deveoped by women.
		- class division + complex society;
- Men and women were same in hunting
- Natives lived a healthy/balanced diet
	- Women in Agraculture. 
- Adaptation
	- Climate/Society
		- indians adapt to the zones
		- adapt to disease. 
		- Diversity between groups
	- Missipian Society 
		- Mound Society 
			- Classisim
	- More complex. 