#Colonies #Liberty #Government
> War with an empire, creation of a republic, political disputes different different political parties were all common during the political parties of this time period.

Thesis 1: Although the British Government were relieved that the 7-Years war was over, the poor decisions with managing colonies and political stance caused the demise of the British authority in the Colonies.
Thesis 2: Although the war was a major part of the American Revolution, figuring federal and government structure and creating law/order among the Citizens to gain trust is undoubtedly more important.
Thesis 3: Although a dual-party system allowed stability and proper “healthy” competition to eachother, the feuds caused by political policies regarding the American People and their decisions that were passed to create an environment for the power. 

Key Terms:
(1756-1763) 7-Years War – The war global conflict between Britain and France but affected the Americas. British had severe debt, taxes on colonies were issued which fueled the patriot movement.  

(1763) Virtual Representation – The act of having a legal/political representation in court, in the case of the Americas, Class Representation. Although United States would also take this, but they would have a Region representation governed over their state.  

(1774) Intolerable Acts – A series of acts that the British passed after the Boston massacre and the Boston tea party, which intolerable to many as some acts were harsh for people not involved which father pressured Americans 

(1774) First Continental Congress – Tried to compromise with Britain after the intolerable acts and rising tensions in both the massacre and the tea party. This helped stall for the time on war and tried to get the  

(1774) Minutemen – Local militia of the 13 colonies where they were ready to fight at a minute's notice. Also, the first unofficial US military. It was the first militia involved with fighting off loyalist forces.  

(1775) Second Continental Congress - Because of the first attacks of the British, this was the 13 colonies to prepare for war, they appointed George Washington as a war general and commissioned Thomas Jefferson to craft the Declaration of Independence.  

(1776) Common Sense – A book published by john lock which partook in common enlightenment thoughts that were constantly inspiring the patriots. Following the idea of a civil contract with the king which helped sparked the theme for the Declaration of Independence.  

(L. 1700) Popular Sovereignty – The idea that we the people give the power of the government is given to whoever is suitable for it. This helps with forming a government where the people have control in the congress.  

(1776) Declaration of Independence – Document drafted with the intention of formally cut ties to the British government. This document embodied freedom from “tyrannical” British government, which allowed democratic, and federalist movements within the United States.  

(1784) Treaty of Paris – The treaty that ended the American Revolutionary war, which recognized American independence and brought the British empire to a hold still. This defined border in United State.

(1776) Pennsylvania Constitution – Unicameral legislature with complete power and no veto power with the rights. Adams was alarmed and said that this would create corruption as it promoted aristocratic ideas.  

(1777) Battle of Saratoga – Turning point for the Republican War in which the United States defeated the British army and brought morale up for the patriots which fueled hope for independence and hope.  

(1777) Mixed Government – the creation of the Government in which democracy, aristocracy, and monarchy to help create a perfect balance between the two. This is the outline of the Article of confederation where the Local Governors of states have the rights while the other parts of the governments I.E. legislature would have different kinds of power.  

(1777) Articles of Confederation – The Articles of Confederation was a paper that allowed each state to be governed independently, it was loosely governed nation in which when a decision is needed to be made, the only way is to have unanimous consent.  

(1787) Northwest Ordinance - The addition of states when certain conditions are met. This sparked the movement in Ohio and other Northern states to have squatters register as people.  

(1786 & 87) Shays’ Rebellion – Debts and Taxes were too high, farmers were armed and attempted to attack the government on not holding true to their promises. This found the holes in the Article of Confederation 

(1787) Constructional Convention- A call to action after the Shays’ rebellion, this is particularly useful in the development of a Federal Government. This is the first time where the idea of states share power with the fed, or Federalism take place. 

(1787) Virginia and New Jersey Plan – Plans to resolve the action, where there were issues between both proposition, one favored biased federal voting, another less federal influence in economic and judicial ideas. The proposition of this plan showed that the US government is built on compromises so there are impurities in the order of bureaucracy.  

(1787) The Great Compromise – Amendments to merge the two ended up in a bicameral composed of 2 chambers, Senate and the House of Representative. (senate– 2 per state, house of rep - based on population). This sparked public outcry and doubts on ideas in charge.  

(1788) Federalist Papers – 10 anonymous papers on how the constitution works, how it should benefit the citizens of the US and why the state legislatures must pass this for a better protection and diversity. This brought many enlightenments ideology as well as fear of becoming a tyrannical order in Congress.

(1789) Judiciary Acts – reflected federalists' stance on strong national intuitions, which states that all courts appealed will move to a higher form of judge, i.e. city, county, state, region, Supreme. Supreme court has the final say, this allowed a smoother process of rights and helped the development of the Bill of Rights for anyone doubting the judicial system.  

(1791) Bill of Rights – 10 amendments approved by congress and ratified by the states regarding the safeguards of personal rights including freedom of speech and religion (CRAZY AT THE TIME) and had legal protection as well as federal protection regarding so.  

(1790-1791) Hamiliton’s 3 Reports – Reports on Public Credit, National Bank and Manufactures, Firstly, public credit allowed federal to tax people regarding items such as whiskey and helped benefit his friends (as well as other bondholders) to straighten the economy, this led to the forever national debt in United States. Secondly the National Bank, this was Hamiliton’s way of conveying his thought of a centralized federal bank that controls the flow of cash as well as the amount of cash circulating and create bills of credit for countries in Europe. Thirdly, Hamiliton argued the income of the government should rely on taxes to pay off debt, these increased tariffs of imports and increased distilled alcohol taxes. These 3 would benefit United States in the short term but would come and haunt them after. 

(1793) Proclamation of Neutrality – During the war of 1812, or events leading up to it, the United States declared that the nation will be neutral during the war of 1812 and would refrain from providing aide during the war. This was crucial as many examples nowadays would follow the same principal just with poor control on intervention.  

(1794) Jay’s Treaty – It was a negotiation between the US and British regarding military control of territory (west) and decided to move the entire system of posts in the west away. Spain and other countries were alarmed by this and tried to manipulate their territory of United States.  

(1794) Whiskey Rebellion – The Whiskey Rebellion was the retaliation of Farmers regarding Hamiliton taxes on Spirits. This cut the return from distilled alcohol and as well as farmers ideas of equality. A militia force was used to depress this uprising, but it sparked a chain reaction to repeal this and ruled for the people  

(1798) Naturalization, Alien, and Sedition Acts – Acts that allowed any noncitizens to be deported at any time anywhere, this was because of the federalist’s pro-British stance.  

(1798) Virginia and Kentucky Resolution – states have the right to nullify any acts that might cause issues within the states or are an overreach to the federal powers. This was the Democratic-Republic Response to the Alien Sedition Acts 

(1811) Battle of Tippecanoe – Important battle between the Natives by British rallying Indians to fight the United States 

(1814) Treaty of Ghent – British Peace due to bad economy and poor energy, (after 1812) which disussed borders in the west, and made Andrew Jakson a hero.